{
    "input": "Research about the XZ backdoor.",
    "output": "The XZ backdoor is a malicious backdoor introduced to the Linux utility xz within the liblzma library in versions 5.6.0 and 5.6.1. This backdoor was introduced by an account using the name \"Jia Tan\". The backdoor allows an attacker who possesses a specific Ed448 private key to execute remote code on the affected Linux system. This issue has been given the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures number CVE-2024-3094 and has been assigned a CVSS score of 10.0, the highest possible score.\n\nThe backdoor was discovered by software developer Andres Freund in March 2024. He noticed that SSH connections were generating an unexpectedly high amount of CPU usage and causing errors in Valgrind, a memory debugging tool. The backdoor alters the behavior of OpenSSH's SSH server daemon by abusing the systemd library, allowing the attacker to gain administrator access.\n\nThe campaign to insert the backdoor into the XZ Utils project was a culmination of approximately three years of effort, between November 2021 and February 2024, by a user going by the name Jia Tan and the nickname JiaT75. The backdoor was notable for its level of sophistication and for the fact that the perpetrator practiced a high level of operational security for a long period of time while working to attain a position of trust.\n\nThe malicious code is known to be in 5.6.0 and 5.6.1 releases of the XZ Utils software package. The exploit remains dormant unless a specific third-party patch of the SSH server is used. Under the right circumstances this interference could potentially enable a malicious actor to break sshd authentication and gain unauthorized access to the entire system remotely.\n\nIn response to the discovery of the backdoor, the US federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency issued a security advisory recommending that the affected devices should roll back to a previous uncompromised version. Linux software vendors, including Red Hat, SUSE, and Debian, have reverted the affected packages to older versions. Canonical postponed the beta release of Ubuntu 24.04 LTS and its flavours by a week and opted for a complete binary rebuild of all the distribution's packages.\n\nThe incident started a discussion regarding the viability of having critical pieces of cyberinfrastructure depend on unpaid volunteers. Computer scientist Alex Stamos opined that \"this could have been the most widespread and effective backdoor ever planted in any software product\", noting that had the backdoor remained undetected, it would have \"given its creators a master key to any of the hundreds of millions of computers around the world that run SSH\"."
}